819
The market for so-called functional beverages, drinks that promise health benefits beyond their inherent nutritional value, nearly doubled over the course of four years, in rising from $2.68 billion in 1997 to be $4.7 billion in 2000.
A. in rising from $2.68 billion in 1997 to be
B. in having risen from $2.68 billion in 1997 to
C. as it rose from $2.68 billion in 1997 to be
D. with its rise from $2.68 billion in 1997 to
E. rising from $2.68 billion in 1997 to

820
According to some critics, watching television not only undermines one’s ability to think critically but also impairs one’s overall ability to perceive.
A. not only undermines one’s ability to think critically but also impairs one’s
B. not only undermines one’s ability of critical thinking but also impairs the
C. undermines not only one’s ability to think critically but also impairs one’s
D. undermines not only one’s ability of critical thinking but also impairs the
E. undermines one’s ability not only to think critically but also impairs one’s

821
To show that it is serious about addressing the state's power crisis, the administration has plans for ordering all federal facilities in California to keep thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit and shutting down escalators during electricity shortages this summer.
A. has plans for ordering all federal facilities in California to keep thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit and shutting
B. has plans to order that all federal facilities in California are keeping thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit and shutting
C. is planning on ordering all federal facilities in California to keep thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit, and they will shut
D. is planning to order that all federal facilities in California are keeping thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit and shut
E. is planning to order all federal facilities in California to keep thermostats at 78 degrees Fahrenheit and shut

822
Once made exclusively from the wool of sheep that roam the Isle of Lewis and Harris off the coast of Scotland, Harris tweed is now made only with wools that are imported, sometimes from the mainland and sometimes they come--as a result of a 1996 amendment to the Harris Tweed Act--from outside Scotland.
A. sometimes from the mainland and sometimes they come
B. sometimes from the mainland and sometimes
C. and come sometimes from the mainland or sometimes
D. from the mainland sometimes, or sometimes it comes
E. from the mainland sometimes, or sometimes coming


 
823
In her presentation, the head of the Better Business Bureau emphasized that companies should think of the cost of conventions and other similar gatherings as not an expense, but as an investment in networking that will pay dividends.
A. as not an expense, but as
B. as not expense but
C. not an expense, rather
D. not as an expense, but as
E. not in terms of expense, but

824
Recent interdisciplinary studies advance the argument that emotions, including those deemed personal or private is a social phenomenon, though one inseparable from bodily response.
A. private is a social phenomenon, though one inseparable
B. private, are social phenomena that are inseparable
C. private are a social phenomenon but are not those separable
D. private—are social phenomena but not separable
E. also as private emotions, are social phenomena not inseparable

825
In a speech before the Senate Banking Committee, the chairman of the Federal Reserve painted an optimistic picture of the economy, suggesting to investors the central bank in the near future is not lowering interest rates.
A. suggesting to investors the central bank in the near future is not lowering interest rates
B. suggesting to investors that the central bank would not lower interest rates in the near future
C. which suggests that to investors in the near future interest rates will not be lowered by the central bank
D. with the suggestion to investors in the near future that interest rates would not be lowered by the central bank
E. with the suggestion to investors of interest rates not being lowered in the near future by the central bank

826
The company’s CEO backed away from her plan for dividing the firm into five parts, saying that she still had meant to spin off or sell two units but that the company would retain ownership of two others as well as the core company.
A. plan for dividing the firm into five parts, saying that she still had meant
B. plan that was to divide the firm into five parts, and she said that she still would mean
C. plan to divide the firm into five parts, saying that she still meant
D. planning on dividing the firm into five parts, and saying that she meant still
E. planning to divide the firm into five parts, and she said that she meant still
 

827
The cactus is now heavily plundered in deserts in the southwestern United States, so much that enforcement agencies in five states have created special squads for its protection.
A. The cactus is now heavily plundered in deserts in the southwestern United States, so much that enforcement agencies in five states have created special squads for its protection.
B. The cactus is now heavily plundered in deserts in the southwestern United States, so much so that special squads have been created by law enforcement agencies in five states for protecting them.
C. The cactus is now so heavily plundered in deserts in the southwestern United States that enforcement agencies in five states have created special squads to protect it.
D. Because they are now so heavily plundered in deserts in the southwestern United States, enforcement agencies in five states have created special squads to protect cacti.
E. Because they are now so heavily plundered in the southwestern United States, special squads have been created by enforcement agencies in five states for the protection of cacti.

828
Satellite radio transmissions, a popular feature in car stereos, differ from those of AM and FM radio, which is sent directly from earthbound towers and then to a car stereo.
A. which is sent directly from earthbound towers and then to a car
B. which are sent directly from earthbound towers to a car's
C. sent from earthbound towers and then directly to a car
D. sending them directly from earthbound towers to a car's
E. being sent directly from earthbound towers to a car

829
Although the company's executives have admitted that there had been accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue, as well as of failure to record expenses, they could not yet say precisely how much money was involved.
A. the company's executives have admitted that there had been accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue, as well as of failure to record
B. the company's executives admitted that there had been accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue and failure to record
C. the company's executives, admitting accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue and failure in recording
D. admission by the company's executives was made of accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue and failure in recording
E. admission by the company's executives that there had been accounting irregularities involving improper reporting of revenue and failure in recording
 

830
As with ants, the elaborate social structure of termites includes a few individuals reproducing and the rest serve the colony by tending juveniles, gathering food, building the nest, or battling intruders.
A. As with ants, the elaborate social structure of termites includes a few individuals reproducing
B. As do ants, termites have an elaborate social structure, which includes a few individuals to reproduce
C. Just as with ants, termite social structure is elaborate, including a few individuals for reproducing
D. Like ants, termites have an elaborate social structure in which a few individuals reproduce
E. Like that of ants, the termite social structure is elaborate, including a few individuals that reproduce

831
While Noble Sissle may be best known for his collaboration with Eubie Blake, as both a vaudeville performer and as a lyricist for songs and Broadway musicals, also enjoying an independent career as a singer with such groups as Hahn’s Jubilee Singers.
A. and as a lyricist for songs and Broadway musicals, also enjoying
B. and writing lyrics for songs and Broadway musicals, also enjoying
C. and a lyricist for songs and Broadway musicals, he also enjoyed
D. as well as writing lyrics for songs and Broadway musicals, he also enjoyed
E. as well as a lyricist for songs and Broadway musicals, he had also enjoyed

832
Air traffic routes over the North Pole are currently used by only two or three planes a day, but it was found by a joint Canadian–Russian study to be both feasible as well as desirable if those routes are opened to thousands more commercial planes a year.
A. Air traffic routes over the North Pole are currently used by only two or three planes a day, but it was found by a joint Canadian–Russian study to be both feasible as well as desirable if those routes are opened to thousands more commercial planes a year.
B. Currently used by only two or three planes a day, a joint Canadian–Russian study has found that if air traffic routes over the North Pole are opened to thousands more commercial planes a year, it would be both feasible and desirable.
C. A joint Canadian–Russian study, finding it to be both feasible as well as desirable to open air traffic routes over the North Pole, which are currently used by only two or three planes a day, to thousands more commercial planes a year.
D. Although air traffic routes over the North Pole are currently used by only two or three planes a day, a joint Canadian–Russian study has found that opening those routes to thousands more commercial planes a year is both feasible and desirable.
E. With air traffic routes over the North Pole currently used by only two or three planes a day, opening those routes to thousands more commercial planes a year has been found by a joint Canadian—Russian study as both feasible and desirable.
 

833
From an experiment using special extrasensory perception cards, each bearing one of a set of symbols, parapsychologist Joseph Banks Rhine claimed statistical proof for subjects who could use thought transference to identify a card in the dealer’s hand.
A. for subjects who could use thought transference to identify a card in the dealer’s hand
B. for a card in the dealer’s hand to be identified by subjects with thought transference
C. of subjects able to identify with thought transference a card in the dealer’s hand
D. that subjects could identify a card in the dealer’s hand by using thought transference
E. that subjects are capable to use thought transference for identifying a card in the dealer’s hand
834
A long‐term study of some 1,000 physicians indicates that the more coffee these doctors drank, the more they had a likelihood of coronary disease.
A. more they had a likelihood of coronary disease
B. more was their likelihood of having coronary disease
C. more they would have a likelihood to have coronary disease
D. greater was their likelihood of having coronary disease
E. greater was coronary disease likely
835
Hurricanes at first begin traveling from east to west, because that direction is the way the prevailing winds in the tropics blow, but they then veer off toward higher latitudes, in many cases changing direction toward the east before dissipating over the colder, more northerly waters or over land.
A. Hurricanes at first begin traveling from east to west, because that direction is the way the prevailing winds in the tropics blow, but
B. At first, hurricanes travel from east to west, because that is the direction of the prevailing winds in the tropics, but
C. While hurricanes travel from east to west at first, the direction of the prevailing winds blowing in the tropics, and
D. Because hurricanes at first travel from east to west, since it is the direction of the prevailing winds in the tropics,
E. Hurricanes, beginning by traveling from east to west, because this is the direction of the prevailing winds in the tropics,

836
Travelers from Earth to Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoiding large doses of radiation, plus contending with the chemically reactive Martian soil, and perhaps even ward off contamination by Martian life-forms.
A. Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoiding large doses of radiation, plus contending
B. Mars would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, contend
C. Mars, having to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, would also have to avoid large doses of radiation, plus contending
D. Mars, having to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, plus contend
E. Mars, who would have to endure low levels of gravity for long periods of time, avoid large doses of radiation, contend with
837
Unlike the virginal, whose single set of strings runs parallel to the front edge of the instrument, the harpsichord’s several sets of strings are placed at right angles to its front edge.
A. whose single set of strings runs parallel to the front edge of the instrument, the harpsichord’s several sets of strings are
B. with a single set of strings running parallel to the front edge of the instrument, the several sets of strings of the harpsichord are
C. which has a single set of strings that runs parallel to the front edge of the instrument, in the case of the harpsichord, several sets of strings are
D. which has a single set of strings that run parallel to the front edge of the instrument, the harpsichord has several sets of strings
E. in which a single set of strings run parallel to the front edge of the instrument, the harpsichord’s several sets of strings are

838
Many population studies have linked a high-salt diet to high rates of hypertension and shown that in societies where they consume little salt, their blood pressure typically does not rise with age.
A. shown that in societies where they consume little salt, their
B. shown that in societies that have consumed little salt, their
C. shown that in societies where little salt is consumed,
D. showing that in societies where little salt is consumed,
E. showing that in societies where they consume little salt, their

839
Partly as a result of Proposition 13, which severely limits property tax increases, California has come more and more to rely on personal income taxes for its revenues; income taxes have increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962 to 48 percent by 2002.
A. have increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962 to 48 percent by 2002
B. have increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962 to being up to 48 percent by 2002
C. have increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962, and by 2002 were up to 48 percent
D. increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962, and by 2002 were 48 percent
E. increased from 18 percent of the state's general fund in 1962 to 48 percent by 2002

840
According to scientists, human expansion and the human appropriation of Earth's finite resources is the cause of what may be the most sweeping wave of species extinctions since the demise of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago.
A. expansion and the human appropriation of Earth's finite resources is
B. expansion and human appropriation of Earth's finite resources are
C. expansion and its appropriation of Earth's finite resources is
D. expansion, along with their appropriation of Earth's finite resources, is
E. expansion, along with its appropriation of Earth's finite resources, are

841
Although Alice Walker published a number of essays, poetry collections, and stories during the 1970s, her third novel, The Color Purple, which was published in 1982, brought her the widest acclaim in that it won both the National Book Award as well as the Pulitzer Prize.
A. which was published in 1982, brought her the widest acclaim in that it won both the National Book Award as well as the Pulitzer Prize
B. published in 1982, bringing her the widest acclaim by winning both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize
C. published in 1982, brought her the widest acclaim, winning both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize
D. was published in 1982 and which, winning both the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize, brought her the widest acclaim
E. was published in 1982, winning both the National Book Award as well as the Pulitzer Prize, and bringing her the widest acclaim

842
Heating oil and natural gas futures rose sharply yesterday, as long-term forecasts for much colder temperatures in key heating regions raised fears of insufficient supplies capable of meeting the demand this winter.
A. of insufficient supplies capable of meeting
B. of supplies that would be insufficient for meeting
C. of insufficient supplies that are unable to meet
D. that there would be supplies insufficient for meeting
E. that supplies would be insufficient to meet

843
Because it regarded the environmentalists as members of an out-of-state organization, the city council voted that they are denied permission for participating in the parade.
A. that they are denied permission for participating
B. that they be denied permission for participating
C. denying them permission for participation
D. the denial of permission that they participate
E. to deny them permission to participate

844
In 1913, the largely self-taught Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan mailed 120 of his theorems to three different British mathematicians; only one, G. H. Hardy, recognized the brilliance of these theorems, but thanks to Hardy’s recognition, Ramanujan was eventually elected to the Royal Society of London.
A. only one, G. H. Hardy, recognized the brilliance of these theorems, but
B. they were brilliant, G. H. Hardy alone recognized, but
C. these theorems were brilliant, but only one, G. H. Hardy recognized;
D. but, only one, G. H. Hardy, recognizing their brilliance,
E. only one G. H. Hardy recognized, but these theorems were brilliant
 

845
Cost cutting and restructuring has allowed the manufacturing company to lower its projected losses for the second quarter, and they are forecasting a profit before the end of the year.
A. has allowed the manufacturing company to lower its projected losses for the second quarter, and they are forecasting
B. has allowed for the manufacturing company to lower its projected losses in the second quarter and to forecast
C. have allowed that the manufacturing company can lower the projected losses for the second quarter, and to forecast
D. have allowed the manufacturing company to lower its projected second-quarter losses and to forecast
E. have allowed for the manufacturing company to lower the projected losses in the second quarter, as well as forecasting

846
The Life and Casualty Company hopes that by increasing its environmental fund reserves to $1.2 billion, that it has set aside enough to pay for environmental claims and no longer has to use its profits and capital to pay those claims bit by bit, year by year.
A. that it has set aside enough to pay for environmental claims and no longer has
B. enough has been set aside with which environmental claims can be paid and it will have no longer
C. it has set aside enough for payment of environmental claims and thus no longer having
D. enough has been set aside to pay for environmental claims, thus no longer having
E. it has set aside enough to pay for environmental claims and will no longer have

847
Like ancient Egyptian architectural materials that were recycled in the construction of ancient Greek Alexandria, so ancient Greek materials from the construction of that city were reused in subsequent centuries by Roman, Muslim, and modern builders.
A. Like ancient Egyptian architectural materials that were recycled in the construction of
B. Like recycling ancient Egyptian architectural materials to construct
C. Just as ancient Egyptian architectural materials were recycled in the construction of
D. Just as they recycled ancient Egyptian architectural materials in constructing
E. Just like ancient Egyptian architectural materials that were recycled in constructing

848
Especially in the early years, new entrepreneurs may need to find resourceful ways, like renting temporary office space or using answering services, that make their company seem large and more firmly established than they may actually be.
A. that make their company seem large
B. to make their companies seem larger
C. thus making their companies seem larger
D. so that the companies seem larger
E. of making their company seem large
 

849
Unlike the nests of leaf cutters and most other ants, situated underground or in pieces of wood, raider ants make a portable nest by entwining their long legs to form “curtains” of ants that hang from logs or boulders, providing protection for the queen and the colony larvae and pupae.
A. the nests of leaf cutters and most other ants,
B. the nests of leaf cutters and most other ants, which are
C. leaf cutters and most other ants, whose nests are
D. leaf cutters and most other ants in having nests
E. those of leaf cutters and most other ants with nests

850
Turtles, like other reptiles, can endure long fasts, in their ability to survive on weekly or even monthly feedings; however, when food is readily available, they may eat frequently and grow very fat.
A. fasts, in their ability to survive
B. fasts, having their ability to survive
C. fasts, due to having the ability of surviving
D. fasts because they are able to survive
E. fasts because of having the ability of surviving

851
Thai village crafts, as with other cultures, have developed through the principle that form follows function and incorporate readily available materials fashioned using traditional skills.
A. as with
B. as did those of
C. as they have in
D. like in
E. like those of

852
With near to all tortilla chips made from corn kernels that have been heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime), this removes the skin of the kernel so water can penetrate.
A. With near to all tortilla chips made from corn kernels that have been heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime), this
B. Having nearly all tortilla chips made from corn kernels that are heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime), this
C. Nearly all tortilla chips being made from corn kernels that are heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime)
D. Nearly all tortilla chips are made from corn kernels that have been heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime), a process that
E. Nearly all tortilla chips are made from corn kernels having been heated in a solution of calcium hydroxide (lime), a process that
 

853
To estimate the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is a lack of a single yardstick that all distances can be measured by.
A. To estimate the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is a lack of a single yardstick that all distances can be measured by.
B. Estimating the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem because there is no single yardstick by which all distances can be measured.
C. Because there is a lack of a single yardstick to measure all distances by, estimating the expansion rate of the universe is a notoriously difficult problem.
D. A notoriously difficult problem is to estimate the expansion rate of the universe because a single yardstick is lacking by which all distances can be measured.
E. It is a notoriously difficult problem to estimate the expansion rate of the universe because by no single yardstick can all distances be measured.

854
Although the earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe, building their dwellings of either wattle and daub or unfired mud brick, by the thirteenth century buildings of coral blocks in lime mortar began to appear.
A. earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe, building their dwellings
B. earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe, who built their dwellings
C. earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe built their dwellings
D. dwellings of the earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe, built
E. dwellings of the earliest inhabitants of Mapungubwe, which were built
855
The Commerce Department reported that the nation’s economy grew at a brisk annual pace of 3.7 percent in the second quarter, but that while businesses were expanding their production, unsold goods piled up on store shelves as consumer spending is slowed sharply.
A. unsold goods piled up on store shelves as consumer spending is slowed sharply
B. unsold goods were piling up on store shelves as consumer spending slowed sharply
C. unsold goods had piled up on store shelves with a sharp slowing of consumer spending
D. consumer spending was slowing sharply, with the piling up of unsold goods on store shelves
E. consumer spending has slowed sharply, with unsold goods piling up on store shelves
856
Thomas Mann’s novel Doctor Faustus offers an examination not only of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but also a skillfully navigated exploration of the major concerns of modernism.
A. an examination not only of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but
B. an examination not only about the difficulty of reconciling reason, will, and passion in any art form, and
C. not only an examination of how difficult it is to reconcile reason, will, and passion in any art form, and
D. not only an examination about the difficulty with reconciling reason, will, and passion together in any art form, but
E. not only an examination of the difficulty of reconciling reason, will, and passion in any art form, but
857
Upon their first encountering leaf-cutting ants in South America, the insects seemed to some Europeans to be carrying bits of greenery to shade themselves from the tropical sun--hence the sobriquet "parasol ants.”
A. Upon their first encountering leaf-cutting ants in South America, the insects seemed to some Europeans to be
B. Upon their first encountering leaf-cutting ants in South America, some Europeans thought they were
C. On first encountering leaf-cutting ants in South America, it seemed to some Europeans that the insects were
D. On first encountering leaf-cutting ants in South America, some Europeans thought the insects were
E. On their first encounter with leaf-cutting ants in South America, some Europeans thought it was because the insects were

858
By skimming along the top of the atmosphere, a proposed new style of aircraft could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours, according to its proponents.
A. By skimming along the top of the atmosphere, a proposed new style of aircraft could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours, according to its proponents.
B. By skimming along the top of the atmosphere, proponents of a proposed new style of aircraft say it could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours.
C. A proposed new style of aircraft could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours, according to its proponents, with it skimming along the top of the atmosphere.
D. A proposed new style of aircraft, say its proponents, could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours because of its skimming along the top of the atmosphere.
E. According to its proponents, skimming along the top of the atmosphere makes it possible that a proposed new style of aircraft could fly between most points on Earth in under two hours.

859
According to a recent study, retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children as to receive it from them.
A. retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children as
B. retirees in the United States are four times as likely to give regular financial aid to their children as it is for them
C. retirees in the United States are four times more likely to give regular financial aid to their children than
D. it is four times more likely for retirees in the United States to give regular financial aid to their children than they are
E. it is four times as likely that retirees in the United States will give their children regular financial aid as they are
 

860
Discussion of greenhouse effects have usually had as a focus the possibility of Earth growing warmer and to what extent it might, but climatologists have indicated all along that precipitation, storminess, and temperature extremes are likely to have the greatest impact on people.
A. Discussion of greenhouse effects have usually had as a focus the possibility of Earth growing warmer and to what extent it might,
B. Discussion of greenhouse effects has usually had as its focus whether Earth would get warmer and what the extent would be,
C. Discussion of greenhouse effects has usually focused on whether Earth would grow warmer and to what extent,
D. The discussion of greenhouse effects have usually focused on the possibility of Earth getting warmer and to what extent it might,
E. The discussion of greenhouse effects has usually focused on whether Earth would grow warmer and the extent that is,

861
In the seventh century B.C., the Roman alphabet was adapted from the Etruscan alphabet, which in turn had been adapted in the previous century from a western Greek alphabet, which itself had been adapted earlier in the same century from the Phoenician alphabet.
A. which itself had been adapted earlier
B. adapting itself earlier
C. itself being adapted earlier
D. having been earlier adapted itself
E. earlier itself having been adapted

862
The foundation works to strengthen local and regional agricultural markets and cooperating with governments, improving access for farmers for productive resources such as land and credit.
A. cooperating with governments, improving access for farmers for
B. cooperates with governments to improve access for farmers to
C. cooperate with governments for improvements of access for farmers to
D. cooperate with governments and improve accessibility for farmers for their
E. in cooperation with governments to improve access for farmers for

863
A professor at the university has taken a sabbatical to research on James Baldwin’s books that Baldwin wrote in France while he was living there.
A. on James Baldwin’s books that Baldwin wrote in France while he was living there
B. about the books James Baldwin wrote in France
C. into James Baldwin’s books written while in France
D. on the books of James Baldwin, written while he lived in France
E. the books James Baldwin wrote while he lived in France
 

864
When working with overseas clients, an understanding of cultural norms is at least as important as grasping the pivotal business issues for the global manager.
A. When working with overseas clients, an understanding of cultural norms is at least as important as grasping the pivotal business issues for the global manager.
B. When they work with overseas clients, understanding cultural norms is at least of equivalent importance to grasping the pivotal business issues for the global manager.
C. For global managers working with overseas clients, understanding cultural norms is at least as important as grasping the pivotal business issues.
D. For global managers working with overseas clients, an understanding of cultural norms is at least as important to them as grasping the pivotal business issues.
E. Global managers working with overseas clients find an understanding of cultural norms to be equally important to grasping the pivotal business issues.

865
Often major economic shifts are so gradual as to be indistinguishable at first from ordinary fluctuations in the financial markets.
A. so gradual as to be indistinguishable
B. so gradual they can be indistinguishable
C. so gradual that they are unable to be distinguished
D. gradual enough not to be distinguishable
E. gradual enough so that one cannot distinguish them

866
Dinosaur tracks show them walking with their feet directly under their bodies, like mammals and birds, not extended out to the side in the manner of modern reptiles.
A. Dinosaur tracks show them walking with their feet directly under their bodies, like 
B. Dinosaur tracks show that they walked with their feet directly under their bodies, as do
C. Dinosaurs left tracks that showed them walking with their feet directly under their bodies, like
D. The tracks that dinosaurs left show that they walked with their feet directly under their bodies, as do
E. In the tracks they left, dinosaurs are shown walking with their feet under their bodies, like

867
Although when a hagfish is threatened, it will secrete slime that is small in quantity, it expands several hundred times as it absorbs seawater, forming a slime ball that can coat the gills of predatory fish and either suffocate them or distress them enough to make them flee.
A. Although when a hagfish is threatened, it will secrete slime that is small in quantity, 
B. Although a small quantity of slime is secreted by the hagfish, when threatened
C. Although, when threatened, a hagfish will secrete slime that is small in quantity,
D. Although the slime secreted by a threatened hagfish is small in quantity,
E. Although the hagfish secretes a small quantity of slime when threatened,
 

868
Officials at the United States Mint believe that the Sacagawea dollar coin will be used more as a substitute for four quarters rather than for the dollar bill because of its weight, only 8.1 grams, which is far less than four quarters, which weigh 5.67 grams each.
A. more as a substitute for four quarters rather than for the dollar bill because of its weight, only 8.1 grams, which is far less than
B. more as a substitute for four quarters than the dollar bill because it weighs only 8.1 grams, far lighter than
C. as a substitute for four quarters more than for the dollar bill because it weighs only 8.1 grams, far less than
D. as a substitute for four quarters more than the dollar bill because its weight of only 8.1 grams is far lighter than it is for
E. as a substitute more for four quarters rather than for the dollar bill because its weight, only 8.1 grams, is far less than it is for

869
In the United States, less than half as many multifamily housing units were produced in the 1990s than in each of the previous two decades.
A. less than half as many multifamily housing units were produced in the 1990s than
B. less than half as many multifamily housing units had been produced in the 1990s as
C. there were less than half as many multifamily housing units produced in the 1990s than
D. fewer than half as many multifamily housing units were produced in the 1990s as
E. fewer than half as many multifamily housing units had been produced in the 1990s than

870
Educator Maria Montessori believed that students be allowed to choose from among a number of different lessons designed for the encouragement of their development as thinkers and creators with individual learning and thinking styles.
A. that students be allowed to choose from among a number of different lessons designed for the encouragement of
B. that students be allowed to choose between a number of different lessons designed to encourage
C. that students should be allowed to choose among a number of different lessons designed to encourage
D. in allowing students to choose from among a number of different lessons were designed for encouraging
E. in allowing students to choose between a number of different lessons designed for the encouragement of

871
Analysts and media executives predict the coming year to be no less challenging than the previous one had been for the company’s C.E.O.
A. the coming year to be no less challenging than the previous one had been
B. the coming year to be no less challenging compared to the previous one
C. that the coming year would be no less challenging compared to the previous one
D. that the coming year will be no less challenging than the previous one had been
E. that the coming year will be no less challenging than the previous one

872
Scientists say that, by bathing the skin cells in extracts of immune cells, that human skin cells in a test tube are made to behave as if they were immune system cells.
A. that human skin cells in a test tube are made to behave as if they were
B. that human skin cells were to behave in a test tube as if they were
C. human skin cells in a test tube were made to behave as if 
D. they have made human skin cells in a test tube that were behaving as
E. they have made human skin cells in a test tube behave as if they were

873
Researchers now regard interferon as not a single substance, but it is rather a biological family of complex molecules that play an important, though not entirely defined, role in the immune system.
A. as not a single substance, but it is rather a biological family of complex molecules that play
B. as not a single substance but as a biological family of complex molecules playing
C. not as a single substance but as a biological family of complex molecules that play
D. not to be a single substance but rather a biological family of complex molecules playing
E. not as a single substance but instead as being a biological family of complex molecules that play

874
The remarkable similarity of Thule artifacts throughout a vast region can, in part, be explained as a very rapid movement of people from one end of North America to the other.
A. The remarkable similarity of Thule artifacts throughout a vast region can, in part, be explained as
B. Thule artifacts being remarkably similar throughout a vast region, one explanation is
C. That Thule artifacts are remarkably similar throughout a vast region is, in part, explainable as
D. One explanation for the remarkable similarity of Thule artifacts throughout a vast region is that there was
E. Throughout a vast region Thule artifacts are remarkably similar, with one explanation for this being
875
Regulators are likely to end what are, in effect, long-standing exemptions permitting pilots of small turboprop aircraft at small carriers to fly as much as 20 percent more hours per month than pilots at larger airlines fly, with the consequence that some carriers could be forced to hire additional pilots.
A. as much as 20 percent more hours per month than pilots at larger airlines fly, with the consequence that
B. as many as 20 percent more hours per month as pilots at larger airlines, and
C. more hours per month, as much as 20 percent, than pilots at larger airlines; consequently
D. as much as 20 percent more hours per month as larger airlines’ pilots, so
E. as many as 20 percent more hours per month than pilots at larger airlines do, and consequently
876
Self-compassion is made up of mindfulness, the ability to manage thoughts and emotions without being carried away or repressing them, common humanity, or empathy with the suffering of others, and self-kindness, a recognition of your own suffering and a commitment to solving the problem.
A. away or repressing them, common humanity, or empathy with the suffering of others, 
B. away, or repression of them, and common humanity, or empathy with the suffering of others, 
C. away, or repressing them, common humanity, empathy with the suffering of others;
D. away or repressing them; common humanity, an empathy with the suffering of others; 
E. away or repress them; common humanity, to empathize with the suffering of others

877
According to the laws of this nation, individuals are minors until they reach the age of eighteen, although this is less in some countries and more in others.
A. although this is less in some countries and more in others
B. but this age is lower in some countries; higher in others
C. although in some countries, it is lower and in others it is higher
D. although it is less than that in some countries and more than that in others
E. but the relevant age is lower in some countries and higher in others

878
Rather than ignore a company that seems about to fail, investment analysts should recognize that its reorganization and recent uptick in revenue, combined with its dynamic new leadership, indicate that the firm's prospects must be taken seriously.
A. Rather than ignore a company that seems about to fail, 
B. Rather than ignoring a company that is about to seemingly fail,
C. Instead of a company that is seemingly about to fail being ignored,
D. Instead of ignore a company that seems about to fail,
E. In place of ignoring a company's imminent failure seemingly about to occur,

879
Between 14,000 and 8,000 B.C. the ice cap that covered northern Asia, Europe, and America began to melt, uncovering vast new areas that were to be occupied by migrating peoples moving northward.
A. began to melt, uncovering vast new areas that were to be occupied
B. began melting, to uncover vast new areas to be occupied
C. began, by melting, to uncover vast new areas for occupation
D. began, after melting, uncovering vast new areas which are to be occupied
E. would begin to uncover, through melting, vast new areas for occupation
 

880
Because property values sometimes fluctuate in response to economic conditions beyond the purchaser's control, an investment in a home may underperform when compared to that of other widely available classes of investments.
A. an investment in a home may underperform when compared to that of other widely available classes of investments
B. an investment in a home may underperform compared with other widely available classes of investments
C. an investment in a home may underperform when comparing it with other widely available classes of investments
D. compared to that of other widely available classes of investments, an investment in a home may underperform
E. in comparison with that of other widely available classes of investments, an investment in a home may underperform

881
Bengal‐born writer, philosopher, and educator Rabindranath Tagore had the greatest admiration for Mohandas K. Gandhi the person and also as a politician, but Tagore had been skeptical of Gandhi’s form of nationalism and his conservative opinions about India’s cultural traditions.
A. for Mohandas K. Gandhi the person and also as a politician, but Tagore had been
B. for Mohandas K. Gandhi as a person and as a politician, but Tagore was also
C. for Mohandas K. Gandhi not only as a person and as a politician, but Tagore was also
D. of Mohandas K. Gandhi as a person and as also a politician, but Tagore was
E. of Mohandas K. Gandhi not only as a person and as a politician, but Tagore had also been


883
Written early in the French Revolution, Mary Wollstonecraft’s A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) attributed Europe’s social and political ills to be the result of the dominance of aristocratic values and patriarchal hereditary privilege.
A. Mary Wollstonecraft’s A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) attributed Europe’s social and political ills to be the result of
B. Mary Wollstonecraft’s A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) attributed Europe’s social and political ills to result from
C. Mary Wollstonecraft’s A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792) attributed Europe’s social and political ills to
D. in A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792), Mary Wollstonecraft attributed Europe’s social and political ills to have been the result of
E. Mary Wollstonecraft, in A Vindication of the Rights of Man (1790) and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792), attributed Europe’s social and political ills to
 
882
Traffic safety officials predict that drivers will be equally likely to exceed the proposed speed limit as the current one.
A. equally likely to exceed the proposed speed limit as
B. equally likely to exceed the proposed speed limit as they are
C. equally likely that they will exceed the proposed speed limit as
D. as likely that they will exceed the proposed speed limit as
E. as likely to exceed the proposed speed limit as they are

884
Using study groups managed by the principal popular organizations and political parties, the Swedish public was informed by the government about energy and nuclear power.
A. the Swedish public was informed by the government about energy and nuclear power
B. the government informed the Swedish public about energy and nuclear power
C. energy and nuclear power information was given to the Swedish public by the government
D. information about energy and nuclear power was given to the Swedish public by the government
E. the public of Sweden was given energy and nuclear power information by the government

885
The use of the bar code, or Universal Product Code, which was created in part to enable supermarkets to process customers at a faster rate, has expandedbeyond supermarkets to other retail outlets and have become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when it was first introduced in 1974.
A. have become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when it was first introduced in 1974
B. has become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when they were first introduced in 1974
C. have become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when first introduced in 1974
D. has become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when the bar code was first introduced in 1974
E. bar codes have become readily accepted despite some initial opposition when it was first introduced in 1974

886
Normally a bone becomes fossilized through the action of groundwater, which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and replaces them with minerals.
A. which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and replaces them
B. which permeates the bone, washes away its organic components, and those are replaced
C. which permeates the bone, washing away its organic components, to be replaced
D. permeating the bone, washing away its organic components, to be replaced
E. permeating the bone, washing away its organic components and replacing them
 
887
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) had long been expected to announce a reduction in output to bolster sagging oil prices, but officials of the organization just recently announced that the group will pare daily production by 1.5 million barrels by the beginning of next year, but only if non‐OPEC nations, including Norway, Mexico, and Russia, were to trim output by a total of 500,000 barrels a day.
A. year, but only if non‐OPEC nations, including Norway, Mexico, and Russia, were to trim output
B. year, but only if the output of non‐OPEC nations, which includes Norway, Mexico, and Russia, is trimmed
C. year only if the output of non‐OPEC nations, including Norway, Mexico, and Russia, would be trimmed
D. year only if non‐OPEC nations, which includes Norway, Mexico, and Russia, were trimming output
E. year only if non‐OPEC nations, including Norway, Mexico, and Russia, trim output

888
Even with the proposed budget cuts and new taxes and fees, the city's projected deficit for the next budget year is getting worse: administration officials announced that they believe the gap will be $3.7 billion, a billion dollars over what it was predicted just two months ago.
A. over what it was predicted
B. over the prediction from
C. more than it was predicted
D. more than they had predicted
E. more than they predicted it

889
Over the past ten years cultivated sunflowers have become a major commercial crop, second only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil.
A. second only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil
B. second in importance to soybeans only as a source of vegetable oil
C. being second in importance only to soybeans as a source of vegetable oil
D. which, as a source of vegetable oil, is only second to soybeans
E. as a source of vegetable oil only second to soybeans

890
Not trusting themselves to choose wisely among the wide array of investment opportunities on the market, stockbrokers are helping many people who turn to them to buy stocks that could be easily bought directly.
A. stockbrokers are helping many people who turn to them to buy stocks that could be easily
B. stockbrokers are helping many people who are turning to them for help in buying stocks that they could easily have
C. many people are turning to stockbrokers for help from them to buy stocks that could be easily
D. many people are turning to stockbrokers for help to buy stocks that easily could have been
E. many people are turning to stockbrokers for help in buying stocks that could easily be

891
Scientists claim that the discovery of the first authenticated mammal bones in amber could provide important clues of determining, in addition to how, when mammals colorized the islands of the West Indies.
A. of determining, in addition to how, when mammals colonized the islands of the West Indies
B. in the determination of how and when the islands of the West Indies were colonized by mammals
C. to determine how mammals colonized the islands of the West Indies and when they did
D. for determining when the islands of the West Indies were colonized by mammals and how they were
E. for determining how and when mammals colonized the islands of the West Indies

892
In the 1940s popular magazines in the United States began to report on the private lives of persons from the entertainment industry, in despite of the fact that they previously had featured individuals in business and politics.
A. in despite of the fact that they previously had featured individuals
B. in spite of the fact previously that these publications featured articles on those
C. whereas previously there were those individuals featured in articles
D. whereas previously those individuals they featured were
E. whereas previously these publications had featured articles on individuals

893
In the early part of the twentieth century, many vacationers found that driving automobiles and sleeping in tents allowed them to enjoy nature close at hand and tour at their own pace, with none of the restrictions of passenger trains and railroad timetables or with the formalities, expenses, and impersonality of hotels.
A. with none of the restrictions of passenger trains and railroad timetables or with the
B. with none of the restrictions of passenger trains, railroad timetables, nor
C. without the restrictions of passenger trains and railroad timetables nor
D. without the restrictions of passenger trains and railroad timetables or with the
E. without the restrictions of passenger trains and railroad timetables or the

894
Over the next few years, increasing demands on the Chattahoochee River, which flows into the Apalachicola River, could alter the saline content of Apalachicola Bay, which would rob the oysters there of their flavor, and to make them decrease in size, less distinctive, and less in demand.
A. which would rob the oysters there of their flavor, and to make them decrease in size,
B. and it would rob the oysters there of their flavor, make them smaller,
C. and rob the oysters there of their flavor, making them decrease in size,
D. robbing the oysters there of their flavor and making them smaller,
E. robbing the oysters there of their flavor, and making them decrease in size,
 

895
Elizabeth Barber, the author of both Prehistoric Textiles, a comprehensive work on cloth in the early cultures of the Mediterranean, and also of Women’s Work, a more general account of early cloth manufacture, is an expert authority on textiles in ancient societies.
A. also of Women’s Work, a more general account of early cloth manufacture, is an expert authority on
B. also Women’s Work, a more general account of cloth manufacture, is an expert authority about
C. of Women’s Work, a more general account about early cloth manufacture, is an authority on
D. of Women’s Work, a more general account about early cloth manufacture, is an expert authority about
E. Women’s Work, a more general account of early cloth manufacture, is an authority on

896
Digging in sediments in northern China, evidence has been gathered by scientists suggesting that complex life‐forms emerged much earlier than they had previously thought.
A. evidence has been gathered by scientists suggesting that complex life‐forms emerged much earlier than they had
B. evidence gathered by scientists suggests a much earlier emergence of complex life‐forms than had been
C. scientists have gathered evidence suggesting that complex life‐forms emerged much earlier than
D. scientists have gathered evidence that suggests a much earlier emergence of complex life‐forms than that which was
E. scientists have gathered evidence which suggests a much earlier emergence of complex life‐forms than that

897
Employing many different techniques throughout his career, Michelangelo produced a great variety of art works, including paintings, for example, in the Sistine Chapel, to sculpture, for example, the statue of David.
A. including paintings, for example, in the Sistine Chapel, to sculpture, for example,
B. including paintings, for example, in the Sistine Chapel, to sculpture, like
C. including paintings, such as those in the Sistine Chapel, and sculpture, as
D. ranging from paintings, such as those in the Sistine Chapel, to sculpture, such as
E. ranging from paintings, such as in the Sistine Chapel, and sculpture, such as
 

898
According to a recent study of consumer spending on prescription medications, increases in the sales of the 50 drugs that were advertised most heavily accounts for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year, the remainder of which came from sales of the 9,850 prescription medicines that companies did not advertise or advertised very little.
A. heavily accounts for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year, the remainder of which came
B. heavily were what accounted for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year; the remainder of the increase coming
C. heavily accounted for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year, the remainder of the increase coming
D. heavily, accounting for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year, while the remainder of the increase came
E. heavily, which accounted for almost half of the $20.8 billion increase in drug spending last year, with the remainder of it coming

899
Technically, “quicksand” is the term for sand that is so saturated with water as to acquire a liquid’s character.
A. that is so saturated with water as to acquire a liquid’s character
B. that is so saturated with water that it acquires the character of a liquid
C. that is saturated with water enough to acquire liquid characteristics
D. saturated enough with water so as to acquire the character of a liquid
E. saturated with water so much as to acquire a liquid character

900
At the end of 2001, motion picture industry representatives said that there were about a million copies of Hollywood movies available online and expected piracy to increase with high‐speed Internet connections that become more widely available.
A. online and expected piracy to increase with high‐speed Internet connections that become more widely available
B. online and expect the increase of piracy with the wider availability of high‐speed Internet connections
C. online, and they expect more piracy to increase with the wider availability of high‐speed Internet connections
D. online, and that they expected the increase of piracy as high‐speed Internet connections would become more widely available
E. online, and that they expected piracy to increase as high‐speed Internet connections became more widely available

901
Making things even more difficult has been general market inactivity lately, if not paralysis, which has provided little in the way of pricing guidance.
A. has been general market inactivity lately, if not paralysis, which has provided
B. there is general market inactivity, if not paralysis, lately it has provided
C. general market inactivity, if not paralysis, has lately provided
D. lately, general market inactivity, if not paralysis, has provided
E. is that lately general market inactivity, if not paralysis, which provides

902
Ryunosuke Akutagawa’s knowledge of the literatures of Europe, China, and that of Japan were instrumental in his development as a writer, informing his literary style as much as the content of his fiction.
A. that of Japan were instrumental in his development as a writer, informing his literary style as much as
B. that of Japan was instrumental in his development as a writer, and it informed both his literary style as well as
C. Japan was instrumental in his development as a writer, informing both his literary style and
D. Japan was instrumental in his development as a writer, as it informed his literary style as much as
E. Japan were instrumental in his development as a writer, informing both his literary style in addition to

903
Many stock traders in the United States have set out to become global investors, convinced that limiting their investments to the U. S. stock market, even though it is certainly home to the stocks of some of the world’s great corporations, restricted their gains.
A. even though it is certainly
B. which, while it is certainly
C. despite that that market is certainly
D. which, though certainly
E. although, certainly as

904
According to scientists who monitored its path, an expanding cloud of energized particles ejected from the Sun recently triggered a large storm in the magnetic field that surrounds Earth, which brightened the Northern Lights and also possibly knocking out a communications satellite.
A. an expanding cloud of energized particles ejected from the Sun recently triggered a large storm in the magnetic field that surrounds Earth, which brightened the Northern Lights and also possibly knocking
B. an expanding cloud of energized particles ejected from the Sun was what recently triggered a large storm in the magnetic field that surrounds Earth, and it brightened the Northern Lights and also possibly knocked
C. an expanding cloud of energized particles ejected from the Sun recently triggered a large storm in the magnetic field that surrounds Earth, brightening the Northern Lights and possibly knocking
D. a large storm in the magnetic field that surrounds Earth, recently triggered by an expanding cloud of energized particles, brightened the Northern Lights and it possibly knocked
E. a large storm in the magnetic field surrounding Earth was recently triggered by an expanding cloud of energized particles, brightening the Northern Lights and it possibly knocked

905
Because many of Australia’s marsupials, such as the koala, are cute and cuddly, as well as being biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after their discovery in the 1700s.
A. being biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after
B. being biologically different from North American marsupials, they attracted a lot of attention since
C. biologically different than North American marsupials, they attracted a lot of attention since
D. biologically different than North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention after
E. biologically different from North American marsupials, they have attracted a lot of attention since

906
Having been named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter, the asteroid named Ida, in the middle of the belt of asteroids that orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter, was discovered in 1884.
A. Having been named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter, the asteroid named Ida, in the middle of the belt of asteroids that orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter, was discovered in 1884.
B. Discovered in 1884, the asteroid Ida, named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter, is in the middle of the belt of asteroids that orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter.
C. In the middle of the belt of asteroids that orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter, the asteroid Ida, discovered in 1884 and named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter.
D. The asteroid Ida, named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter and discovered in 1884, is in the middle of the belt of asteroids to orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter.
E. Ida, an asteroid discovered in 1884 and which was named for a mythological nymph who cared for the infant Jupiter, is in the middle of the belt of asteroids to orbit the Sun between Mars and Jupiter.

907
Custodian fees and expenses, as described in the statement of operations, include interest expense incurred by the fund on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account during the period.
A. include interest expense incurred by the fund on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account during the period
B. are to include interest expenses on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account the fund incurred during the period
C. includes interest expense the fund incurred during the period on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account
D. may include interest expense during the period that the fund was to incur on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account
E. including interest expense on any cash overdrafts of its custodian account incurred by the fund during the period
 

908
Although some had accused Smith, the firm’s network manager, of negligence when the crucial data went missing, the CEO defused a situation that was quite tense with her public statement that the debacle was not Smith's fault.
A. a situation that was quite tense with her public statement that the debacle was not Smith's fault
B. a situation that was quite tense, by publicly stating that the debacle was not Smith's fault
C. a situation, which was quite tense, by stating publicly that Smith was not responsible for the debacle
D. a quite tense situation with a public statement about the debacle not being Smith's fault
E. a quite tense situation by publicly stating the debacle not to have been Smith's fault

909
Many utilities obtain most of their electric power from large coal and nuclear operations at costs that are sometimes two to three times higher as that of power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both make use of waste heat and take advantage of the current abundance of natural gas.
A. two to three times higher as that of power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both
B. higher by two to three times as that from smaller, more efficient plants that both can
C. two to three times higher than those for power from smaller, more efficient plants that can both
D. between two to three times higher as those for power from smaller, more efficient plants that both can
E. between two to three times higher than from smaller, more efficient plants that they can both

910
Five hundred million different species of living creatures have appeared on Earth, nearly 99 percent of them vanishing. 
A. Five hundred million different species of living creatures have appeared on Earth, nearly 99 percent of them vanishing. 
B. Nearly 99 percent of five hundred million different species of living creatures that appeared on Earth have vanished.
C. Vanished are nearly 99 percent of the five hundred million different species of living creatures that appeared on Earth.
D. Of five hundred million different species of living creatures that have appeared on Earth, nearly 99 percent of them have vanished.
E. Of the five hundred million different species of living creatures that have appeared on Earth, nearly 99 percent have vanished.
 

911
When viewed from the window of a speeding train, the speed with which nearby objects move seems faster than that of more distant objects.
A. the speed with which nearby objects move seems faster than that of
B. the speed that nearby objects move seems faster than for
C. the speed of nearby objects seems faster than
D. nearby objects’ speeds seem to be faster than those of
E. nearby objects seem to move at a faster speed than do

912
Ramón pointed out that food high in whole-grain fiber creates the energy we need to fight illnesses—as do vegetables and lean proteins.
A. fiber creates the energy we need to fight illnesses—as do vegetables and lean proteins
B. fiber in addition to vegetables and lean proteins, create the energy we need to fight illnesses
C. fiber creates the energy we need to fight illnesses, along with vegetables and lean proteins
D. fiber, vegetables, and lean proteins creates the energy we need to fight illnesses
E. fiber, as vegetables and lean proteins, create the energy we need to fight illnesses

913
The English physician Edward Jenner found that if experimental subjects were deliberately infected with cowpox, which caused only a mild illness, they are immune from smallpox.
A. which caused only a mild illness, they are immune from
B. causing only a mild illness, they become immune from
C. which causes only a mild illness, they are immune to
D. causing only a mild illness, they became immune from
E. which caused only a mild illness, they would become immune to
914
As opposed to adults, pound for pound, children breathe twice as much air, drink two and a half times as much water, eat three to four times as much food, and have more skin surface area.
A. As opposed to adults, pound for pound, children
B. Compared pound for pound with adults, children
C. Unlike an adult, pound for pound, children
D. Pound for pound, a child, unlike an adult, will
E. Pound for pound, children compared to adults will
915
The final decades of the twentieth century not only saw an explosion of the literary production among women, but there was also an intense interest in the lives and works of women writers.
A. not only saw an explosion of the literary production among women, but there was also
B. not only saw an explosion of literary production in women, but there was also
C. saw not only an explosion of literary production among women, but also
D. saw not only an explosion of the literary production by women, but it also saw
E. saw not only an explosion of literary production by women, but also saw
916
In the six-month period that ended on September 30, the average number of Sunday papers sold by the company was 81,000 less than the comparable period a year ago.
A. the average number of Sunday papers sold by the company was 81,000 less than
B. on average, the number of Sunday papers sold by the company was 81,000 less than it was
C. the company sold an average of 81,000 fewer Sunday papers than in
D. the company averaged sales of 81,000 fewer Sunday papers than what it did in
E. the average sale of Sunday papers for the company was 81,000 less than what they were in

917
Covering 71 percent of Earth’s surface, the oceans play an essential role in maintaining the conditions for human existence on land, moderating temperature by the absorption of heat and carbon dioxide, and giving pure water back to the atmosphere through evaporation.
A. Covering 71 percent of Earth’s surface, the oceans play an essential role in maintaining the conditions for human existence on land, moderating
B. Covering 71 percent of Earth’s surface and playing an essential role in maintaining the conditions for human existence on land, the oceans moderate
C. The oceans cover 71 percent of Earth’s surface and play an essential role in maintaining conditions for human existence on land, and by moderating
D. The oceans cover 71 percent of Earth’s surface, play an essential role in maintaining the conditions for human existence on land, and moderate
E. The oceans cover 71 percent of Earth’s surface, playing an essential role in maintaining the conditions for human existence on land, and they moderate

918
Michelangelo, it is believed, had made his sculpture of David using an eight-inch plaster model that was recently discovered after being lost for nearly 300 years.
A. Michelangelo, it is believed, had made his sculpture of David using an eight-inch plaster model that was recently discovered after being
B. An eight-inch plaster model is believed to have been used by Michelangelo for his sculpture of David and recently discovered after it was
C. An eight-inch plaster model believed to have been used by Michelangelo for his sculpture of David has been discovered after having been
D. It is believed that an eight-inch plaster model that Michelangelo used for his sculpture of David and has recently been discovered after it was
E. It is believed that Michelangelo used an eight-inch plaster model for his sculpture of David, and it was recently discovered after having been
919
Although the rise in the Producer Price Index was greater than expected, most analysts agreed that the index was unlikely to continue going up and that inflation remained essentially under control.
A. that the index was unlikely to continue going up and that inflation remained
B. that it was unlikely for the index continuing to go up and for inflation to remain
C. that the index was unlikely to continue to go up, with inflation to remain
D. on the unlikelihood that the index would continue going up and that inflation remained
E. on the unlikelihood that the index would continue to go up and for inflation to remain

920
Just like the Internet today, often being called an “information superhighway,” the telegraph was described in its day as an “instantaneous highway of thought.”
A. Just like the Internet today, often being
B. Just as the Internet is today often
C. As with the Internet being today often
D. As is often the case today with the internet,
E. Similar to the Internet today, often

921
Severely hindered by problems with local suppliers, the fact that the AQ division also had a new management team to adapt to was not seen by the board of directors as a legitimate excuse for such low productivity.
A. Severely hindered by problems with local suppliers, the fact that the AQ division also had a new management team to adapt to
B. Though severely hindered by local supply problems, the fact that the AQ division also had a new management team to which to adapt
C. Severely hindered by problems with local suppliers, the AQ division also had to adapt to a new management team, but this
D. Severely hindered by local supply problems that the AQ division also had to adapt to a new management team
E. Though severely hindered by problems with local suppliers, the AQ division’s also having a new management team to which it had to adapt

922
The Eastern State Penitentiary was established in 1822 by reformers advocating that prisoners be held in solitary confinement and hard labor so as to reform them.
A. advocating that prisoners be held in solitary confinement and hard labor so as to reform them
B. who were advocating prisoners to be held in solitary confinement and hard labor for their reform
C. advocating solitary confinement and hard labor as the means to reform prisoners
D. who advocated solitary confinement and hard labor for the means of prisoner reform
E. advocating as the means for prisoner reform solitary confinement and hard labor

923
Some anthropologists believe that the genetic homogeneity evident in the world’s people is the result of a “population bottleneck”—at some time in the past our ancestors suffered an event, greatly reducing their numbers and thus our genetic variation.
A. at some time in the past our ancestors suffered an event, greatly reducing their numbers
B. that at some time in the past our ancestors suffered an event that greatly reduced their numbers
C. that some time in the past our ancestors suffered an event so that their numbers were greatly reduced,
D. some time in the past our ancestors suffered an event from which their numbers were greatly reduced
E. some time in the past, that our ancestors suffered an event so as to reduce their numbers greatly,

924
Through experimenting designed to provide information that will ultimately prove useful in the treatment of hereditary diseases, mice have received bone marrow transplants that give them a new gene.
A. Through experimenting designed to provide information that will ultimately prove
B. Through experiments designed to provide information ultimately proving
C. In experimentation designed to provide information that ultimately proves
D. In experimenting designed to provide information ultimately proving
E. In experiments designed to provide information that will ultimately prove

925
Linking arrangements among secondary schools and the workplace never evolved in the United States as they have in most other developed countries.
A. among secondary schools and the workplace never evolved in the United States as they have
B. in the United States among secondary schools and the workplace never evolved as they did
C. between secondary schools and the workplace never evolved in the United States as
D. in the United States between secondary schools and the workplace never evolved as they have
E. between secondary schools and the workplace never evolved in the United States as they did

926
The ages of tropical rain forest trees provide critical information for understanding the dynamics of tree populations, to determine historical patterns of disturbance, developing sustainable forestry practices, and calculating carbon recycling rates.
A. to determine historical patterns of disturbance, developing sustainable forestry practices, and calculating
B. to determine historical patterns of disturbance, develop sustainable forestry practices, and to calculate
C. determining historical patterns of disturbance, developing sustainable forestry practices, and calculating
D. determining historical patterns of disturbance, developing sustainable forestry practices, and to calculate
E. determining historical patterns of disturbance, for developing sustainable forestry practices, and for calculating

927
The United Parcel Service plans to convert its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to run on cleaner-burning natural gas.
A. to convert its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to
B. to convert its more than 2,000 trucks in the Los Angeles area that are powered by gasoline to
C. on converting its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area that will
D. for its more than 2,000 gasoline-powered trucks in the Los Angeles area to convert to
E. that its more than 2,000 trucks in the Los Angeles area that are powered by gasoline will convert to
928
Foraging at all times of the day and night, but interspersing their feeding with periods of rest that last between one and eight hours, a sperm whale could eat so much as a ton of squid a day.
A. between one and eight hours, a sperm whale could eat so
B. between one and eight hours, sperm whales can eat as
C. between one to eight hours, sperm whales could eat as
D. from one to eight hours, sperm whales could eat so
E. from one to eight hours, a sperm whale can eat so

929
In some types of pine tree, a thick layer of needles protects the buds from which new growth proceeds; consequently they are able to withstand forest fires relatively well.
A. a thick layer of needles protects the buds from which new growth proceeds; consequently they are able to withstand forest fires relatively well
B. a thick needle layer protects buds from where new growth proceeds, so that they can withstand forest fires relatively well
C. a thick layer of needles protect the buds from which new growth proceeds; thus, they are able to withstand relatively well any forest fires
D. since the buds from which new growth proceeds are protected by a thick needle layer, consequently they can therefore withstand forest fires relatively well
E. because the buds where new growth happens are protected by a thick layer of needles, they are able to withstand forest fires relatively easily as a result

930
The tourism commission has conducted surveys of hotels in the most popular resorts, with the ultimate goal of reducing the guests who end up expressing overall dissatisfaction with the service in the hotels.
A. with the ultimate goal of reducing the guests who end up expressing overall dissatisfaction with the service in the hotels
B. with the goal to ultimately reduce the number of guests who end up expressing overall dissatisfaction with the hotels’ service
C. ultimately with the goal to reduce expressions of overall dissatisfaction by the guests with the hotel service
D. in an ultimate attempt to reduce the number of guests that ends up expressing overall dissatisfaction with the hotels’ service
E. with the ultimate goal of reducing the number of guests who express overall dissatisfaction with the hotels’ service

931
Unlike historical evidence of weather patterns in other regions of the world, which scientists find abundantly represented in tree rings, ancient glacial ice, or layers of sediment from seasonal plankton, the North Pole's clues about its past climates are almost nonexistent.
A. the North Pole's clues about its past climates are almost nonexistent
B. the North Pole does not offer many clues as to its past climates
C. clues to the past climates of the North Pole are almost nonexistent
D. there are few clues about past climates for the North Pole
E. the past climates of the North Pole do not offer many clues

932
A new study suggests that the conversational pace of everyday life may be so brisk it hampers the ability of some children for distinguishing discrete sounds and words and, the result is, to make sense of speech.
A. it hampers the ability of some children for distinguishing discrete sounds and words and, the result is, to make
B. that it hampers the ability of some children to distinguish discrete sounds and words and, as a result, to make
C. that it hampers the ability of some children to distinguish discrete sounds and words and, the result of this, they are unable to make
D. that it hampers the ability of some children to distinguish discrete sounds and words, and results in not making
E. as to hamper the ability of some children for distinguishing discrete sounds and words, resulting in being unable to make

933
The nineteenth‐century chemist Humphry Davy presented the results of his early experiments in his “Essay on Heat and Light,” a critique of all chemistry since Robert Boyle as well as a vision of a new chemistry that Davy hoped to found.
A. a critique of all chemistry since Robert Boyle as well as a vision of a
B. a critique of all chemistry following Robert Boyle and also his envisioning of a
C. a critique of all chemistry after Robert Boyle and envisioning as well
D. critiquing all chemistry from Robert Boyle forward and also a vision of
E. critiquing all the chemistry done since Robert Boyle as well as his own envisioning of

934
To attract the most talented workers, some companies are offering a wider range of benefits, letting employees pick those most important to them.
A. benefits, letting employees pick those most important to them
B. benefits, letting employees pick the most important of them to themselves
C. benefits and letting employees pick the most important to themselves
D. benefits and let employees pick the most important to them
E. benefits and let employees pick those that are most important to themselves

935
Many of the earliest known images of Hindu deities in India date from the time of the Kushan Empire, fashioned either from the spotted sandstone of Mathura or Gandharan grey schist.
A. Empire, fashioned either from the spotted sandstone of Mathura or
B. Empire, fashioned from either the spotted sandstone of Mathura or from
C. Empire, either fashioned from the spotted sandstone of Mathura or
D. Empire and either fashioned from the spotted sandstone of Mathura or from
E. Empire and were fashioned either from the spotted sandstone of Mathura or from

 
936
Tides typically range from three to six feet, but while some places show no tides at all, some others, such as the Bay of Fundy, have tides of at least thirty feet and more.
A. some others, such as the Bay of Fundy, have tides of at least thirty feet and more
B. the others, such as the Bay of Fundy, that have tides of more than thirty feet
C. others, such as the Bay of Fundy, have tides of more than thirty feet
D. those at the Bay of Fundy, which has tides of more than thirty feet
E. the ones at the Bay of Fundy have tides of at least thirty feet and more
937
A leading figure in the Scottish Enlightenment, Adam Smith’s two major books are to democratic capitalism what Marx’s Das Kapital is to socialism.
A. Adam Smith’s two major books are to democratic capitalism what
B. Adam Smith’s two major books are to democratic capitalism like
C. Adam Smith’s two major books are to democratic capitalism just as
D. Adam Smith wrote two major books that are to democratic capitalism similar to
E. Adam Smith wrote two major books that are to democratic capitalism what
938
Researchers studying the brain scans of volunteers who pondered ethical dilemmas have found that the basis for making tough moral judgments is emotion, not logic or analytical reasoning.
A. the brain scans of volunteers who pondered ethical dilemmas have found that the basis for making tough moral judgments is
B. the brain scans of volunteers who pondered ethical dilemmas and found the basis to make tough moral decisions to be
C. the brain scans of volunteers pondering ethical dilemmas and found that the basis for making tough moral decisions is
D. volunteers’ brain scans while pondering ethical dilemmas have found the basis to make tough moral judgments to be
E. volunteers’ brain scans while they pondered ethical dilemmas have found that the basis for making tough moral judgments is
939
Rivaling the pyramids of Egypt or even the ancient cities of the Maya as an achievement, the army of terra‐cotta warriors created to protect Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, in his afterlife is more than 2,000 years old and took 700,000 artisans more than 36 years to complete.
A. the army of terra‐cotta warriors created to protect Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, in his afterlife is more than 2,000 years old and took 700,000 artisans more than 36 years to complete
B. Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, was protected in his afterlife by an army of terra-cotta warriors that was created more than 2,000 years ago by 700,000 artisans who took more than 36 years to complete it
C. it took 700,000 artisans more than 36 years to create an army of terra‐cotta warriors more than 2,000 years ago that would protect Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, in his afterlife
D. more than 2,000 years ago, 700,000 artisans worked more than 36 years to create an army of terra‐cotta warriors to protect Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, in his afterlife
E. more than 36 years were needed to complete the army of terra‐cotta warriors that 700,000 artisans created 2,000 years ago to protect Qin Shi Huang, China’s first emperor, in his afterlife
940
In California, a lack of genetic variation in the Argentine ant has allowed the species to spread widely; due to their being so genetically similar to one another, the ants consider all their fellows to be a close relative and thus do not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limits the spread of this species in its native Argentina.
A. due to their being so genetically similar to one another, the ants consider all their fellows to be a close relative and thus do not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limits
B. due to its being so genetically similar, the ant considers all its fellows to be a close relative and thus does not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limit
C. because it is so genetically similar, the ant considers all its fellows to be close relatives and thus does not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limits
D. because they are so genetically similar to one another, the ants consider all their fellows to be close relatives and thus do not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limit
E. because of being so genetically similar to one another, the ants consider all their fellows to be a close relative and thus do not engage in the kind of fierce intercolony struggles that limits

941
Next month, state wildlife officials are scheduled to take over the job of increasing the wolf population in the federally designated recovery area, the number of which will however ultimately be dictated by the number of prey in the area.
A. area, the number of which will however
B. area; the size of the population, however, will
C. area, however the number of wolves will
D. area; the number of which will, however,
E. area, when the size of the population will, however,

942
About 5 million acres in the United States have been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia with milky sap that gives mouth sores to cattle, displacing grasses and other cattle food and rendering rangeland worthless.
A. States have been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia with milky sap that gives mouth sores to cattle, displacing grasses and other cattle food and rendering
B. States have been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia, with milky sap, that gives mouth sores to cattle and displaces grasses and other cattle food, rendering
C. States have been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia having milky sap that gives mouth sores to cattle and displacing grasses and other cattle food, rendering
D. States, having been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia with milky sap that gives mouth sores to cattle, displaces grasses and other cattle food, and renders
E. States, having been invaded by leafy spurge, a herbaceous plant from Eurasia that has milky sap giving mouth sores to cattle and displacing grasses and other cattle food, rendering
 

943
While it costs about the same to run nuclear plants as other types of power plants, it is the fixed costs that stem from building nuclear plants that makes it more expensive for them to generate electricity.
A. While it costs about the same to run nuclear plants as other types of power plants, it is the fixed costs that stem from building nuclear plants that makes it more expensive for them to generate electricity.
B. While the cost of running nuclear plants is about the same as for other types of power plants, the fixed costs that stem from building nuclear plants make the electricity they generate more expensive.
C. Even though it costs about the same to run nuclear plants as for other types of power plants, it is the fixed costs that stem from building nuclear plants that makes the electricity they generate more expensive.
D. It costs about the same to run nuclear plants as for other types of power plants, whereas the electricity they generate is more expensive, stemming from the fixed costs of building nuclear plants.
E. The cost of running nuclear plants is about the same as other types of power plants, but the electricity they generate is made more expensive because of the fixed costs stemming from building nuclear plants.

944
The 32 species that make up the dolphin family are closely related to whales and in fact include the animal known as the killer whale, which can grow to be 30 feet long and is famous for its aggressive hunting pods.
A. include the animal known as the killer whale, which can grow to be 30 feet long and is
B. include the animal known as the killer whale, growing as big as 30 feet long and
C. include the animal known as the killer whale, growing up to 30 feet long and being
D. includes the animal known as the killer whale, which can grow as big as 30 feet long and is
E. includes the animal known as the killer whale, which can grow to be 30 feet long and it is

946
Companies are relying more and more on networked computers for such critical tasks as inventory management, electronic funds transfer, and electronic data interchange, in which standard business transactions are handled via computer rather than on paper.
A. in which standard business transactions are handled via computer rather than on paper
B. where computers handle standard business transactions rather than on paper
C. in which computers handle standard business transactions instead of on paper
D. where standard business transactions are handled, not with paper, but instead via computer
E. in which standard business transactions are being handled via computer, in place of on paper
 
945
The first trenches that were cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, have yielded strong evidence for centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East that were arising simultaneously with but independently of the more celebrated city‐states of southern Mesopotamia, in what is now southern Iraq.
A. that were cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, have yielded strong evidence for centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East that were arising simultaneously with but
B. that were cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, yields strong evidence that centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East were arising simultaneously with but also
C. having been cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, have yielded strong evidence that centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East were arising simultaneously but
D. cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, yields strong evidence of centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East arising simultaneously but also
E. cut into a 500‐acre site at Tell Hamoukar, Syria, have yielded strong evidence that centrally administered complex societies in northern regions of the Middle East arose simultaneously with but

947
Combining enormous physical strength with higher intelligence, the Neanderthals appear as equipped for facing any obstacle the environment could put in their path, but their relatively sudden disappearance during the Paleolithic era indicates that an inability to adapt to some environmental change led to their extinction.
A. appear as equipped for facing any obstacle the environment could put in their path,
B. appear to have been equipped to face any obstacle the environment could put in their path,
C. appear as equipped to face any obstacle the environment could put in their paths,
D. appeared as equipped to face any obstacle the environment could put in their paths,
E. appeared to have been equipped for facing any obstacle the environment could put in their path,


949
Prices at the producer level are only 1.3 percent higher now than a year ago and are going down, even though floods in the Midwest and drought in the South are hurting crops and therefore raised corn and soybean prices.
A. than a year ago and are going down, even though floods in the Midwest and drought in the South are hurting crops and therefore raised
B. than those of a year ago and are going down, even though floods in the Midwest and drought in the South are hurting crops and therefore raising
C. than a year ago and are going down, despite floods in the Midwest and drought in the South, and are hurting crops and therefore raising
D. as those of a year ago and are going down, even though floods in the Midwest and drought in the South hurt crops and therefore raise
E. as they were a year ago and are going down, despite floods in the Midwest and drought in the South, and are hurting crops and therefore raising

948
To map Earth’s interior, geologists use a network of seismometers to chart seismic waves that originate in the earth’s crust and ricochet around its interior, most rapidly traveling through cold, dense regions and slower through hotter rocks.
A. interior, most rapidly traveling through cold, dense regions and slower
B. interior, which travel most rapidly through cold, dense regions, and more slowly
C. interior, traveling most rapidly through cold, dense regions and more slowly
D. interior and most rapidly travel through cold, dense regions, and slower
E. interior and that travel most rapidly through cold, dense regions and slower

950
Fossils of the arm of a sloth found in Puerto Rico in 1991, and dated at 34 million years old, made it the earliest known mammal of the Greater Antilles Islands.
A. sloth found in Puerto Rico in 1991, and dated at 34 million years old, made it the earliest known mammal of
B. sloth, that they found in Puerto Rico in 1991, has been dated at 34 million years old, thus making it the earliest mammal known on
C. sloth that was found in Puerto Rico in 1991, was dated at 34 million years old, making this the earliest known mammal of
D. sloth, found in Puerto Rico in 1991, have been dated at 34 million years old, making the sloth the earliest known mammal on
E. sloth which, found in Puerto Rico in 1991, was dated at 34 million years old, made the sloth the earliest known mammal of

951
Recently physicians have determined that stomach ulcers are not caused by stress, alcohol, or rich foods, but a bacterium that dwells in the mucous lining of the stomach.
A. not caused by stress, alcohol, or rich foods, but
B. not caused by stress, alcohol, or rich foods, but are by
C. caused not by stress, alcohol, or rich foods, but by
D. caused not by stress, alcohol, and rich foods, but
E. caused not by stress, alcohol, and rich foods, but are by

952
The eyes of the elephant seal adapt to darkness more quickly than any other animal yet tested, thus allowing it to hunt efficiently under the gloomy conditions at its feeding depth of between 300 and 700 meters.
A. The eyes of the elephant seal adapt to darkness more quickly than any other animal yet tested, thus allowing it
B. The eyes of the elephant seal adapt to darkness more quickly than does any other animal yet tested, allowing them
C. The eyes of the elephant seal adapt to darkness more quickly than do those of any other animal yet tested, allowing it
D. Because they adapt to darkness more quickly than any other animal yet tested, the eyes of the elephant seal allow it
E. Because the eyes of the elephant seal adapt to darkness more quickly than do those of any other animal yet tested, it allows them
 
953
A mutual fund having billions of dollars in assets will typically invest that money in hundreds of companies, rarely holding more than one percent of the shares of any particular corporation.
A. companies, rarely holding more than one percent
B. companies, and it is rare to hold at least one percent or more
C. companies and rarely do they hold more than one percent
D. companies, so that they rarely hold more than one percent
E. companies; rarely do they hold one percent or more

954
Positing an enormous volcanic explosion at the end of the Permian period would explain the presence of a buried crater, account for the presence of the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and the presence of quartz having been shattered by high-impact shock waves.
A. account for the presence of the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and the presence of quartz having been
B. of the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and of quartz
C. the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and explain the presence of quartz having been
D. the presence of the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and explain the presence of quartz
E. explain the element iridium (originating deep within the earth), and the presence of quartz

955
The 19‐year‐old pianist and composer performed his most recent work all over Europe, Asia, and North America last year, winning prestigious awards in both London as well as Tokyo for his achievement at so young an age, and he is hoping to continue composing now that he has returned to Chicago.
A. winning prestigious awards in both London as well as Tokyo for his achievement at so young an age, and he is hoping
B. winning prestigious awards both in London and Tokyo for his achievement at such a young age, and hoping
C. having won prestigious awards both in London and Tokyo for his achievement at so young an age, hoping
D. winning prestigious awards in both London and Tokyo for his achievement at such a young age, and he hopes
E. having won prestigious awards both in London as well as Tokyo for his achievement at so young an age, and he hopes

 
956
Starfish, with anywhere from five to eight arms, have a strong regenerative ability, and if one arm is lost it quickly replaces it, sometimes by the animal overcompensating and growing an extra one or two.
A. one arm is lost it quickly replaces it, sometimes by the animal overcompensating and
B. one arm is lost it is quickly replaced, with the animal sometimes overcompensating and
C. they lose one arm they quickly replace it, sometimes by the animal overcompensating,
D. they lose one arm they are quickly replaced, with the animal sometimes overcompensating,
E. they lose one arm it is quickly replaced, sometimes with the animal overcompensating,

957
In 2000, a mere two dozen products accounted for half the increase in spending on prescription drugs, a phenomenon that is explained not just because of more expensive drugs but by the fact that doctors are writing many more prescriptions for higher‐cost drugs.
A. a phenomenon that is explained not just because of more expensive drugs but by the fact that doctors are writing
B. a phenomenon that is explained not just by the fact that drugs are becoming more expensive but also by the fact that doctors are writing
C. a phenomenon occurring not just because of drugs that are becoming more expensive but because of doctors having also written
D. which occurred not just because drugs are becoming more expensive but doctors are also writing
E. which occurred not just because of more expensive drugs but because doctors have also written

958
Similar to other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, the music of Robert Johnson arose from an oral tradition beginning with a mixture of chants, fiddle tunes, and religious music and only gradually evolved into the blues.
A. Similar to other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, the music of Robert Johnson arose from an oral tradition beginning with
B. Similar to that of other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, Robert Johnson made music that arose from an oral tradition that began with
C. As with other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, Robert Johnson made music that arose from an oral tradition beginning as
D. Like other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, Robert Johnson’s music arose from an oral tradition beginning with
E. Like the music of other early Mississippi Delta blues singers, the music of Robert Johnson arose from an oral tradition that began as

 
959
Thelonious Monk, who was a jazz pianist and composer, produced a body of work both rooted in the stride‐piano tradition of Willie (The Lion) Smith and Duke Ellington, yet in many ways he stood apart from the mainstream jazz repertory.
A. Thelonious Monk, who was a jazz pianist and composer, produced a body of work both rooted
B. Thelonious Monk, the jazz pianist and composer, produced a body of work that was rooted both
C. Jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk, who produced a body of work rooted
D. Jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk produced a body of work that was rooted
E. Jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk produced a body of work rooted both

960
Nobody knows exactly how many languages there are in the world, partly because of the difficulty of distinguishing between a language and the sublanguages or dialects within it, but those who have tried to count typically have found about five thousand.
A. and the sublanguages or dialects within it, but those who have tried to count typically have found
B. and the sublanguages or dialects within them, with those who have tried counting typically finding
C. and the sublanguages or dialects within it, but those who have tried counting it typically find
D. or the sublanguages or dialects within them, but those who tried to count them typically found
E. or the sublanguages or dialects within them, with those who have tried to count typically finding

961
Although a number of excellent studies narrate the development of domestic technology and its impact on housewifery, these works do not discuss the contributions of the women employed by manufacturers and utility companies as product demonstrators and publicists, who initially promoted new and unfamiliar technology to female consumers.
A. by manufacturers and utility companies as product demonstrators and publicists,
B. to be product demonstrators and publicists by manufacturers and utility companies,
C. to demonstrate and publicize their products by manufacturers and utility companies
D. by manufacturers and utility companies to be demonstrators and publicists of their products
E. by manufacturers and utility companies to demonstrate and publicize their products

 
962
The absence from business and financial records of the nineteenth century of statistics about women leave us with no record of the jobs that were performed by women and how they survived economically.
A. from business and financial records of the nineteenth century of statistics about women leave us with no record of the jobs that were performed by women and
B. from business and financial records of statistics about women from the nineteenth century leave us with no record of what jobs women performed or
C. of statistics for women from business and financial records in the nineteenth century leaves us with no record of either the jobs that women were performing and of
D. of statistics on women from business and financial records in the nineteenth century leave us with no record of the jobs that women performed or of
E. of statistics about women from business and financial records of the nineteenth century leaves us with no record of either what jobs women performed or

963
Heating‐oil prices are expected to be higher this year than last because refiners are paying about $5 a barrel more for crude oil than they were last year.
A. Heating‐oil prices are expected to be higher this year than last because refiners are paying about $5 a barrel more for crude oil than they were
B. Heating‐oil prices are expected to rise higher this year over last because refiners pay about $5 a barrel for crude oil more than they did
C. Expectations are for heating‐oil prices to be higher this year than last year’s because refiners are paying about $5 a barrel for crude oil more than they did
D. It is the expectation that heating‐oil prices will be higher for this year over last because refiners are paying about $5 a barrel more for crude oil now than what they were
E. It is expected that heating‐oil prices will rise higher this year than last year’s because refiners pay about $5 a barrel for crude oil more than they did

964
Even though Clovis points, spear points with longitudinal grooves chipped onto their faces, have been found all over North America, they are named for the New Mexico site where they were first discovered in 1932.
A. Even though Clovis points, spear points with longitudinal grooves chipped onto their faces, have been found all over North America, they are named for the New Mexico site where they were first discovered in 1932.
B. Although named for the New Mexico site where first discovered in 1932, Clovis points are spear points of longitudinal grooves chipped onto their faces and have been found all over North America.
C. Named for the New Mexico site where they have been first discovered in 1932, Clovis points, spear points of longitudinal grooves chipped onto the faces, have been found all over North America.
D. Spear points with longitudinal grooves that are chipped onto the faces, Clovis points, even though named for the New Mexico site where first discovered in 1932, but were found all over North America.
E. While Clovis points are spear points whose faces have longitudinal grooves chipped into them, they have been found all over North America, and named for the New Mexico site where they have been first discovered in 1932.

965
Heavy commitment by an executive to a course of action, especially if it has worked well in the past, makes it likely to miss signs of incipient trouble or misinterpret them when they do appear.
A. Heavy commitment by an executive to a course of action, especially if it has worked well in the past, makes it likely to miss signs of incipient trouble or misinterpret them when they do appear.
B. An executive who is heavily committed to a course of action, especially one that worked well in the past, makes missing signs of incipient trouble or misinterpreting ones likely when they do appear.
C. An executive who is heavily committed to a course of action is likely to miss or misinterpret signs of incipient trouble when they do appear, especially if it has worked well in the past.
D. Executives’ being heavily committed to a course of action, especially if it has worked well in the past, makes them likely to miss signs of incipient trouble or misinterpreting them when they do appear.
E. Being heavily committed to a course of action, especially one that has worked well in the past, is likely to make an executive miss signs of incipient trouble or misinterpret them when they do appear.

966
According to recent studies comparing the nutritional value of meat from wild animals and meat from domesticated animals, wild animals have less total fat than do livestock fed on grain and more of a kind of fat they think is good for cardiac health.
A. wild animals have less total fat than do livestock fed on grain and more of a kind of fat they think is
B. wild animals have less total fat than livestock fed on grain and more of a kind of fat thought to be
C. wild animals have less total fat than that of livestock fed on grain and have more fat of a kind thought to be
D. total fat of wild animals is less than livestock fed on grain and they have more fat of a kind thought to be
E. total fat is less in wild animals than that of livestock fed on grain and more of their fat is of a kind they think is

967
Yellow jackets number among the 900 or so species of the world’s social wasps, wasps living in a highly cooperative and organized society where they consist almost entirely of females—the queen and her sterile female workers.
A. wasps living in a highly cooperative and organized society where they consist almost entirely of
B. wasps that live in a highly cooperative and organized society consisting almost entirely of
C. which means they live in a highly cooperative and organized society, almost all
D. which means that their society is highly cooperative, organized, and it is almost entirely
E. living in a society that is highly cooperative, organized, and it consists of almost all

 
968
Before 1988, insurance companies in California were free to charge whatever rates the market would bear, needing no approval from regulators before raising rates.
A. needing no approval from regulators before raising
B. and it needed no approval by regulators before raising
C. and needing no approval from regulators before they raised
D. with approval not needed by regulators before they raised
E. with no approval needed from regulators before the raising of

969
Marconi’s conception of the radio was as a substitute for the telephone, a tool for private conversation; instead, it is precisely the opposite, a tool for communicating with a large, public audience.
A. Marconi’s conception of the radio was as a substitute for the telephone, a tool for private conversation; instead, it is
B. Marconi conceived of the radio as a substitute for the telephone, a tool for private conversation, but which is
C. Marconi conceived of the radio as a tool for private conversation that could substitute for the telephone; instead, it has become
D. Marconi conceived of the radio to be a tool for private conversation, a substitute for the telephone, which has become
E. Marconi conceived of the radio to be a substitute for the telephone, a tool for private conversation, other than what it is,

970
Because there are provisions of the new maritime code that provide that even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas, they have already stimulated international disputes over uninhabited islands.
A. Because there are provisions of the new maritime code that provide that even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas, they have already stimulated
B. Because the new maritime code provides that even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas, it has already stimulated
C. Even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas under provisions of the new maritime code, already stimulating
D. Because even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas under provisions of the new maritime code, this has already stimulated
E. Because even tiny islets can be the basis for claims to the fisheries and oil fields of large sea areas under provisions of the new maritime code, which is already stimulating

971
Unlike the automobile company, whose research was based on crashes involving sport utility vehicles, the research conducted by the insurance company took into account such factors as a driver’s age, sex, and previous driving record.
A. company, whose research was based on
B. company, which researched
C. company, in its research of
D. company’s research, having been based on
E. company’s research on

972
Gusty westerly winds will continue to usher in a seasonably cool air mass into the region, as a broad area of high pressure will build and bring fair and dry weather for several days.
A. to usher in a seasonably cool air mass into the region, as a broad area of high pressure will build and
B. ushering in a seasonably cool air mass into the region and a broad area of high pressure will build that
C. to usher in a seasonably cool air mass to the region, a broad area of high pressure building, and
D. ushering a seasonably cool air mass in the region, with a broad area of high pressure building and
E. to usher a seasonably cool air mass into the region while a broad area of high pressure builds, which will

973
With the patience of its customers and with its network strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of new initiatives trying to relieve the congestion that has led to at least four class-action lawsuits and thousands of complaints from frustrated customers.
A. the patience of its customers and with its network strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of new initiatives trying to relieve
B. the patience of its customers and its network strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of new initiatives that try to relieve
C. its network and the patience of its customers strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of new initiatives to try to relieve
D. its network and with the patience of its customers strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of initiatives to try relieving
E. its network and its customers’ patience strained to the breaking point, the on-line service company announced a series of new initiatives to try relieving

974
November is traditionally the strongest month for sales of light trucks, but sales this past November, even when compared with sales in previous Novembers, accounted for a remarkably large share of total vehicle sales.
A. but sales this past November, even when compared with sales in previous Novembers,
B. but even when it is compared with previous Novembers, this past November’s sales
C. but even when they are compared with previous Novembers, sales of light trucks this past November
D. so that compared with previous Novembers, sales of light trucks this past November
E. so that this past November’s sales, even compared with previous Novembers’ sales,
975
Most of the country’s biggest daily newspapers had lower circulation in the six months from October 1995 through March 1996 than a similar period a year earlier.
A. a similar period
B. a similar period’s
C. in a similar period
D. that in a similar period
E. that of a similar period
976
Mauritius was a British colony for almost 200 years, excepting for the domains of administration and teaching, the English language was never really spoken on the island.
A. excepting for
B. except in
C. but except in
D. but excepting for
E. with the exception of

977
Although appearing less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins, heirloom tomatoes, grown from seeds saved during the previous year—they are often green and striped, or have plenty of bumps and bruises—heirlooms are more flavorful and thus in increasing demand.
A. Although appearing less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins, heirloom tomatoes, grown from seeds saved during the previous year
B. Although heirloom tomatoes, grown from seeds saved during the previous year, appear less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins
C. Although they appear less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins, heirloom tomatoes, grown from seeds saved during the previous year
D. Grown from seeds saved during the previous year, heirloom tomatoes appear less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins
E. Heirloom tomatoes, grown from seeds saved during the previous year, although they appear less appetizing than most of their round and red supermarket cousins

978
The World Wildlife Fund has declared that global warming, a phenomenon most scientists agree to be caused by human beings in burning fossil fuels, will create havoc among migratory birds by altering the environment in ways harmful to their habitats.
A. a phenomenon most scientists agree to be caused by human beings in burning fossil fuels,
B. a phenomenon most scientists agree that is caused by fossil fuels burned by human beings,
C. a phenomenon that most scientists agree is caused by human beings’ burning of fossil fuels,
D. which most scientists agree on as a phenomenon caused by human beings who burn fossil fuels,
E. which most scientists agree to be a phenomenon caused by fossil fuels burned by human beings,

979
The largest of all the planets, not only is Jupiter three times so massive as Saturn, the next larger planet, but also possesses four of the largest satellites, or moons, in our solar system.
A. not only is Jupiter three times so massive as Saturn, the next larger
B. not only is Jupiter three times as massive as Saturn, the next largest
C. Jupiter, not only three times as massive as Saturn, the next largest
D. Jupiter not only is three times as massive as Saturn, the next largest
E. Jupiter is not only three times so massive as Saturn, the next larger

980
While many of the dinosaur fossils found recently in northeast China seem to provide evidence of the kinship between dinosaurs and birds, the wealth of enigmatic fossils seem more likely at this stage that they will inflame debates over the origin of birds rather than settle them.
A. seem more likely at this stage that they will inflame debates over the origin of birds rather than
B. seem more likely that it will inflame debates over the origin of birds at this stage than
C. seems more likely to inflame debates on the origin of birds at this stage rather than
D. seems more likely at this stage to inflame debates over the origin of birds than to
E. seems more likely that it will inflame debates on the origin of birds at this stage than to

981
Found only in the Western Hemisphere and surviving through extremes of climate, hummingbirds’ range extends from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego, from sea‐level rain forests to the edges of Andean snowfields and ice fields at altitudes of 15,000 feet.
A. Found only in the Western Hemisphere and surviving through extremes of climate, hummingbirds’ range extends
B. Found only in the Western Hemisphere, hummingbirds survive through extremes of climate, their range extending
C. Hummingbirds, found only in the Western Hemisphere and surviving through extremes of climate, with their range extending
D. Hummingbirds, found only in the Western Hemisphere and surviving through extremes of climate, their range extends
E. Hummingbirds are found only in the Western Hemisphere, survive through extremes of climate, and their range extends

982
She was less successful after she had emigrated to New York compared to her native Germany, photographer Lotte Jacobi nevertheless earned a small group of discerning admirers, and her photographs were eventually exhibited in prestigious galleries across the United States.
A. She was less successful after she had emigrated to New York compared to
B. Being less successful after she had emigrated to New York as compared to
C. Less successful after she emigrated to New York than she had been in
D. Although she was less successful after emigrating to New York when compared to
E. She had been less successful after emigrating to New York than in

 
983
Scientists have recently found evidence that black holes—regions of space in which matter is so concentrated and the pull of gravity so powerful that nothing, not even light, can emerge from them—probably exist at the core of nearly all galaxies and the mass of each black hole is proportional to its host galaxy.
A. exist at the core of nearly all galaxies and the mass of each black hole is proportional to
B. exist at the core of nearly all galaxies and that the mass of each black hole is proportional to that of
C. exist at the core of nearly all galaxies, and that the mass of each black hole is proportional to
D. exists at the core of nearly all galaxies, and that the mass of each black hole is proportional to that of
E. exists at the core of nearly all galaxies and the mass of each black hole is proportional to that of

984
The use of lie detectors is based on the assumption that lying produces emotional reactions in an individual that, in turn, create unconscious physiological responses.
A. that, in turn, create unconscious physiological responses
B. that creates unconscious physiological responses in turn
C. creating, in turn, unconscious physiological responses
D. to create, in turn, physiological responses that are unconscious
E. who creates unconscious physiological responses in turn
985
Australian embryologists have found evidence that suggests that the elephant is descended from an aquatic animal, and its trunk originally evolving as a kind of snorkel.
A. that suggests that the elephant is descended from an aquatic animal, and its trunk originally evolving
B. that has suggested the elephant descended from an aquatic animal, its trunk originally evolving
C. suggesting that the elephant had descended from an aquatic animal with its trunk originally evolved
D. to suggest that the elephant had descended from an aquatic animal and its trunk originally evolved
E. to suggest that the elephant is descended from an aquatic animal and that its trunk originally evolved
986
Most efforts to combat such mosquito‐borne diseases like malaria and dengue have focused either on the vaccination of humans or on exterminating mosquitoes with pesticides.
A. like malaria and dengue have focused either on the vaccination of humans or on exterminating
B. like malaria and dengue have focused either on vaccinating of humans or on the extermination of
C. as malaria and dengue have focused on either vaccinating humans or on exterminating
D. as malaria and dengue have focused on either vaccinating of humans or on extermination of
E. as malaria and dengue have focused on either vaccinating humans or exterminating
987
Among the Tsonga, a Bantu-speaking group of tribes in southeastern Africa, dance teams represent their own chief at the court of each other, providing entertainment in return for food, drink, and lodging.
A. the court of each other, providing entertainment in return for
B. the court of another and provide entertainment in return for
C. the court of the other, so as to provide entertainment as a return on
D. each other’s court, entertainment being provided in return for
E. another’s court and provide entertainment as a return on

988
Almost like clones in their similarity to one another, the cheetah species’ homogeneity makes them especially vulnerable to disease.
A. the cheetah species’ homogeneity makes them especially vulnerable to disease
B. the cheetah species is especially vulnerable to disease because of its homogeneity
C. the homogeneity of the cheetah species makes it especially vulnerable to disease
D. homogeneity makes members of the cheetah species especially vulnerable to disease
E. members of the cheetah species are especially vulnerable to disease because of their homogeneity

989
As sources of electrical power, windmills now account for only about 2,500 megawatts nationwide, but production is almost expected to double by the end of the year, which would provide enough electricity for 1.3 million households.
A. almost expected to double by the end of the year, which would provide
B. almost expected that it will double by the end of the year, thus providing
C. expected that it will almost double by the end of the year to provide
D. expected almost to double by the end of the year and thus to provide
E. expected almost to double by the end of the year, which would thus be providing

990
While most of the earliest known ball courts in Mesoamerica date to 900–400 B.C., waterlogged latex balls found at El Manati and representations of ballplayers painted on ceramics found at San Lorenzo attest to the fact that the Mesoamerican ballgame was well established by the mid-thirteenth century B.C.
A. waterlogged latex balls found at El Manati and representations of ballplayers painted on ceramics found at San Lorenzo attest
B. waterlogged latex balls found at El Manati and the painting of representations of ballplayers on ceramics found at San Lorenzo attests
C. waterlogged latex balls found at El Manati and ceramics painted with representations of ballplayers found at San Lorenzo attests
D. the finding of waterlogged latex balls at El Manati and the painting of representations of ballplayers on ceramics found at San Lorenzo attests
E. the finding of waterlogged latex balls at El Manati and of representations of ballplayers painted on ceramics at San Lorenzo attest

 
991
As criminal activity on the Internet becomes more and more sophisticated, not only are thieves able to divert cash from company bank accounts, they can also pilfer valuable information such as business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans, and sell the data to competitors.
A. they can also pilfer valuable information such as business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans, and sell
B. they can also pilfer valuable information that includes business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans, and selling
C. also pilfering valuable information including business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans, selling
D. but also pilfer valuable information such as business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans to sell
E. but also pilfering valuable information such as business development strategies, new product specifications, and contract bidding plans and selling
992
Last week local shrimpers held a news conference to take some credit for the resurgence of the rare Kemp’s ridley turtle, saying that their compliance with laws requiring that turtle-excluder devices be on shrimp nets protect adult sea turtles.
A. requiring that turtle-excluder devices be on shrimp nets protect
B. requiring turtle-excluder devices on shrimp nets is protecting
C. that require turtle-excluder devices on shrimp nets protect
D. to require turtle-excluder devices on shrimp nets are protecting
E. to require turtle-excluder devices on shrimp nets is protecting
993
A ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, was probably a church, as indicated in its eastward orientation and by its overall plan, as well as artifacts, such as glass oil‐lamp fragments, found at the site.
A. A ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, was probably a church, as indicated in its eastward orientation and by its overall plan, as well as
B. A ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, once probably being a church, was indicated by its eastward orientation, overall plan, and
C. Indicating that a ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, was probably a church were its eastward orientation and overall plan, but also the
D. A ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, was probably a church, as indicates its eastward orientation and overall plan, as well as the
E. That a ruined structure found at Aqaba, Jordan, was probably a church is indicated by its eastward orientation and overall plan, as well as by the
994
In the major cities of industrialized countries at the end of the nineteenth century, important public places such as theaters, restaurants, shops, and banks had installed electric lighting, but electricity was in less than 1 percent of homes, where lighting was still provided mainly by candles or gas.
A. electricity was in less than 1 percent of homes, where lighting was still
B. electricity was in less than 1 percent of homes and lighting still
C. there had been less than 1 percent of homes with electricity, where lighting was still being
D. there was less than 1 percent of homes that had electricity, having lighting that was still
E. less than 1 percent of homes had electricity, where lighting had still been
995
By 1999, astronomers had discovered 17 nearby stars that are orbited by planets about the size of Jupiter.
A. had discovered 17 nearby stars that are orbited by planets
B. had discovered 17 nearby stars with planets orbiting them that were
C. had discovered that there were 17 nearby stars that were orbited by planets
D. have discovered 17 nearby stars with planets orbiting them that are
E. have discovered that 17 nearby stars are orbited by planets

996
Although she was considered among her contemporaries to be the better poet than her husband, later Elizabeth Barrett Browning was overshadowed by his success.
A. Although she was considered among her contemporaries to be the better poet than her husband, later Elizabeth Barrett Browning was overshadowed by his success.
B. Although Elizabeth Barrett Browning was considered among her contemporaries as a better poet than her husband, she was later overshadowed by his success.
C. Later overshadowed by the success of her husband, Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s poetry had been considered among her contemporaries to be better than that of her husband.
D. Although Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s success was later overshadowed by that of her husband, among her contemporaries she was considered the better poet.
E. Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s poetry was considered among her contemporaries as better than her husband, but her success was later overshadowed by his.

997
In no other historical sighting did Halley’s Comet cause such a worldwide sensation as did its return in 1910–1911.
A. did its return in 1910–1911
B. had its 1910–1911 return
C. in its return of 1910–1911
D. its return of 1910–1911 did
E. its return in 1910–1911

998
Rock samples taken from the remains of an asteroid about twice the size of the 6‐mile‐wide asteroid that eradicated the dinosaurs has been dated to be 3.47 billion years old and thus is evidence of the earliest known asteroid impact on Earth.
A. has been dated to be 3.47 billion years old and thus is
B. has been dated at 3.47 billion years old and thus
C. have been dated to be 3.47 billion years old and thus are
D. have been dated as being 3.47 billion years old and thus
E. have been dated at 3.47 billion years old and thus are


